THE INSOLVENCY AND BANKRUPTCY CODE
(AMENDMENT) ACT, 2020
NO. 1 OF 2020
[13th March, 2020.]
An Act further to amend the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016.
BE it enacted by Parliament in the Seventy-first Year of the Republic of India as
follows:—
1. (1) This Act may be called the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Amendment)
Act, 2020.
(2)  It shall be deemed to have come in force on the 28th day of December, 2019.
Short title and
commencement.
vlk/kkj.k
EXTRAORDINARY
Hkkx  II — [k.M 1
PART II — Section 1
izkf/kdkj ls izdkf'kr
PUBLISHED  BY  AUTHORITY
lañ   8]
ubZ fnYyh] 'kqØokj] ekpZ 13] 2020@QkYxqu 23] 1941 ¼'kd½
No. 8]
 NEW DELHI, FRIDAY, MARCH 13, 2020/PHALGUNA 23, 1941 (SAKA)
bl Hkkx esa fHkUu i`"B la[;k nh tkrh gS ftlls fd ;g vyx ladyu ds :i esa j[kk tk ldsA
Separate paging is given to this Part in order that it may be filed as a separate compilation.
MINISTRY OF LAW AND JUSTICE
(Legislative Department)
New Delhi, the 13th March, 2020/Phalguna 23, 1941  (Saka)
The following Act of  Parliament received the assent of the President on the
13th March, 2020, and is hereby published for general information:—
jftLVªh lañ Mhñ ,yñ—(,u)04@0007@2003—20
REGISTERED NO. DL—(N)04/0007/2003—20
xxxGIDHxxx
xxxGIDExxx
सी.जी.-डी.एल.-अ.-14032020-218654
CG-DL-E-14032020-218654
2
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY
[PART II—
Amendment
of section 5.
Amendment
of section 7.
Amendment
of section 11.
Amendment
of section 14.
2. In section 5 of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 (hereafter referred to as
the principal Act),—
(i) in clause (12), the proviso shall be omitted;
(ii) in clause (15), after the words "during the insolvency resolution process
period" occurring at the end, the words "and such other debt as may be notified" shall
be inserted.
3.  In section 7 of the principal Act, in sub-section (1), before the Explanation, the
following provisos shall be inserted, namely:—
"Provided that for the financial creditors, referred to in clauses (a) and (b) of
sub-section (6A) of section 21, an application for initiating corporate insolvency
resolution process against the corporate debtor shall be filed jointly by not less than
one hundred of such creditors in the same class or not less than ten per cent. of the
total number of  such creditors in the same class, whichever is less:
Provided further that for financial creditors who are allottees under a real estate
project, an application for initiating corporate insolvency resolution process against
the corporate debtor shall be filed jointly by not less than one hundred of such
allottees under the same real estate project or not less than ten per cent. of the total
number of  such allottees under the same real estate project, whichever is less:
Provided also that where an application for initiating the corporate insolvency
resolution process against a corporate debtor has been filed by a financial creditor
referred to in the first and second provisos and has not been admitted by the
Adjudicating Authority before the commencement of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy
Code (Amendment) Act, 2020, such application shall be modified to comply with the
requirements of the first or second proviso within thirty days of the commencement
of the said Act, failing which the application shall be deemed to be withdrawn before
its admission.".
4. In section 11 of the principal Act, the Explanation shall be numbered as
Explanation I and after Explanation I as so numbered, the following Explanation shall be
inserted, namely:—
"Explanation II.—For the purposes of this section, it is hereby clarified that
nothing in this section shall prevent a corporate debtor referred to in clauses (a) to (d)
from initiating corporate insolvency resolution process against another corporate
debtor.".
5.  In section 14 of the principal Act,—
(a) in sub-section (1), the following Explanation shall be inserted, namely:—
"Explanation.—For the purposes of this sub-section, it is hereby clarified
that notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in
force, a license, permit, registration, quota, concession, clearances or a similar
grant or right given by the Central Government, State Government, local authority,
sectoral regulator or any other authority constituted under any other  law for the
time being in force, shall not be suspended or terminated on the grounds of
insolvency, subject to the condition that there is no default in payment of current
dues arising for the use or continuation of the license, permit, registration,
quota, concession, clearances or a similar grant or right during the moratorium
period;";
(b) after sub-section (2), the following sub-section shall be inserted, namely:—
"(2A) Where the interim resolution professional or resolution professional,
as the case may be, considers the supply of goods or services critical to protect
and preserve the value of the corporate debtor and manage the operations of
such corporate debtor as a going concern, then the supply of such goods or
31 of 2016.
SEC. 1]
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY
3
Amendment
of section 16.
Amendment
of section 21.
Amendment
of section 23.
Amendment of
section 29A.
Insertion of
new section
32A.
Liability for
prior offences,
etc.
services shall not be terminated, suspended or interrupted during the period of
moratorium,  except where such corporate debtor has not paid dues arising from
such supply during the moratorium period or in such circumstances as may be
specified.";
(c) in sub-section (3), for clause (a), the following clause shall be substituted,
namely:—
"(a) such transactions, agreements or other arrangements as may be
notified by the Central Government in consultation with any financial sector
regulator or any other authority;".
6. In section 16 of the principal Act, in sub-section (1), for the words "within fourteen
days from the insolvency commencement date", the words "on the insolvency commencement
date" shall be substituted.
7. In section 21 of the principal Act, in sub-section (2), in the second proviso, after the
words "convertible into equity shares", the words "or completion of such transactions as
may be prescribed," shall be inserted.
8. In section 23 of the principal Act, in sub-section (1), for the proviso, the following
proviso shall be substituted, namely:—
"Provided that the resolution professional shall continue to manage the
operations of the corporate debtor after the expiry of the corporate insolvency resolution
process period, until an order approving the resolution plan under sub-section (1) of
section 31 or appointing a liquidator under section 34 is passed by the Adjudicating
Authority.".
9. In section 29A of the principal Act,—
(i) in clause (c), in the second proviso, in Explanation I, after the words,
"convertible into equity shares", the words "or completion of such transactions as
may be prescribed," shall be inserted;
(ii) in clause (j), in Explanation I, in the second proviso, after the words
"convertible into equity shares", the words "or completion of such transactions as
may be prescribed," shall be inserted.
10. After section 32 of the principal Act, the following section shall be inserted,
namely:—
"32A. (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Code or
any other law for the time being in force, the liability of a corporate debtor for an
offence committed prior to the commencement of the corporate insolvency resolution
process shall cease, and the corporate debtor shall not be prosecuted for such an
offence from the date the resolution plan has been approved by the Adjudicating
Authority under section 31, if the resolution plan results in the change in the
management or control of the corporate debtor to a person who was not—
(a)  a promoter or in the management or control of the corporate debtor or
a related party of such a person; or
(b) a person with regard to whom the relevant investigating authority has,
on the basis of material in its possession, reason to believe that he had abetted
or conspired for the commission of the offence, and has submitted or filed a
report or a complaint to the relevant statutory authority or Court:
Provided that if a prosecution had been instituted during the corporate
insolvency resolution process against such corporate debtor, it shall stand
discharged from the date of approval of the resolution plan subject to
requirements of this sub-section having been fulfilled:
4
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY
[PART II—
6 of 2009.
18 of 2013.
Amendment of
section 227.
Provided further that every person who was  a "designated partner" as
defined in clause (j) of section 2 of the Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008, or
an "officer who is in default", as defined in clause (60) of section 2 of the
Companies Act, 2013, or was in any manner incharge of, or responsible to the
corporate debtor for the conduct of its business or associated  with the corporate
debtor in any manner and who was directly or indirectly involved in the
commission of such offence as per the report submitted or complaint filed by the
investigating authority, shall continue to be liable to be prosecuted and punished
for such an offence committed by the corporate debtor notwithstanding that the
corporate debtor's liability has ceased under this sub-section.
(2) No action shall be taken against the property of the corporate debtor in
relation to an offence committed prior to the commencement of the corporate insolvency
resolution process of the corporate debtor, where such property is covered under a
resolution plan approved by the Adjudicating Authority under section 31, which
results in the change in control of the corporate debtor to a person, or sale of liquidation
assets under the provisions of Chapter III of Part II of this Code to a person, who was
not—
(i)  a promoter or in the management or control of the corporate debtor or
a related party of such a person; or
(ii) a person with regard to whom the relevant investigating authority has,
on the basis of material in its possession reason to believe that he had abetted
or conspired for the commission of the offence, and has submitted or filed a
report or a complaint to the relevant statutory authority or Court.
Explanation.—For the purposes of this sub-section, it is hereby clarified
that,—
(i) an action against the property of the corporate debtor in relation
to an offence shall include the attachment, seizure, retention or confiscation
of such property under such law as may be applicable to the corporate
debtor;
(ii) nothing in this sub-section shall be construed to bar an action
against the property of any person, other than the corporate debtor or a
person who has acquired such property through corporate insolvency
resolution process or liquidation process under this Code and fulfils the
requirements specified in this section, against whom such an action may
be taken under such law as may be applicable.
(3) Subject to the provisions contained in sub-sections (1) and (2), and
notwithstanding the immunity given in this section, the corporate debtor and any
person who may be required to provide assistance under such law as may be applicable
to such corporate debtor or person, shall extend all assistance and co-operation to
any authority investigating an offence committed prior to the commencement of the
corporate insolvency resolution process.".
11. In section 227 of the principal Act,—
(i) for the words "examined in this Code", the words "contained in this Code"
shall be substituted;
(ii) the following Explanation shall be inserted, namely:—
"Explanation.—For the removal of doubts, it is hereby clarified that the
insolvency and liquidation proceedings for financial service providers or categories
of financial service providers may be conducted with such modifications and in such
manner as may be prescribed.".
SEC. 1]
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY
5
Amendment of
section 239.
12. In section 239 of the principal Act, in sub-section (2),  after clause (f ), the following
clauses shall be inserted, namely:—
"(fa) the transactions under the second proviso to sub-section (2) of section 21;
(fb) the transactions under Explanation  I  to clause (c) of section 29A;
(fc) the transactions under the second proviso to clause (j) of
section 29A;".
13. In section 240 of the principal Act, in sub-section (2),  after clause (i), the following
clause shall be inserted, namely:—
"(ia) circumstances in which supply of critical goods or services may be
terminated, suspended or interrupted during the period of moratorium under
sub-section (2A) of section 14;".
14. (1) The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 2019 is hereby
repealed.
(2) Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done or any action taken under the
Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016, as amended by the said Ordinance, shall be deemed
to have been done or taken under the corresponding provisions of the said Code, as amended
by this Act.
————
DR. G. NARAYANA RAJU,
Secretary to the Govt. of  India.
Amendment of
section 240.
Repeal and
savings.
Ord. 16 of
2019.
31 of 2016.
MGIPMRND—5889GI—13-03-2020.
UPLOADED BY THE MANAGER, GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRESS, MINTO ROAD,  NEW DELHI–110002
AND PUBLISHED BY THE CONTROLLER OF  PUBLICATIONS, DELHI–110054.
SUBIR 
NARAYAN 
GARAI
Digitally signed 
by SUBIR 
NARAYAN GARAI 
Date: 2020.03.14 
00:06:15 +05'30'
